# wizardmaker
The purpose of this system is to make it much easier to create high quality, computer-assisted, step-by-step instructions (commonly called wizards). Wizards are the most effective computer-based method of guiding people through tasks. They are difficult to create, however, because a great deal of information must be extracted from content experts (those who know how to do the task) and then encoded by a programmer. The proposed system, with the working name WizardMaker, allows the content expert to use a smartphone app to create the wizard and gather the assets needed such as pictures, drawings, video and text. When the content expert is satisfied with the wizard it is uploaded to a server. The wizard can be made available by just providing a link. The wizard will be responsive so it can run on any device.

Code for Tucson has taken on this project because we have some preliminary evidence that sustainability groups and other non-profits would benefit from such a tool.  We will, however, confirm this going forward.

Note that this project is unusual because it is mostly a UXD effort. It is quite possible that we will not come up with a design that allows most content experts, relatively unskilled with computers, to easily create a wizard. So before we look for coding resources we will investigate proposed designs and try to determine the feasibility of the project from a UXD point of view. It is also quite possible that, even if we prove the feasibility of the project, the development will be too great a task to fit within Code for Tucson's resources. We will cross that bridge when and if we come to it.


